feat: Add HowTo on hibernating/waking K8s clusters (#151)
citynetwork/docs: docs/howto/kubernetes/gardener/hibernate-shoot-cluster.md

balancers associated with the cluster.

Since the hibernated worker nodes are essentially wiped off, when you
wake a Gardener-based cluster up, it will have to re-fetch any images
its Pods previously ran on. That is because the image cache of newly
created worker nodes starts empty. Consequently, please keep in mind
that a cluster whose resources were perfectly humming along *before* the
hibernation, might suddenly see Pods failing with `ImagePullError` if
any image they depend on has been deleted in an upstream registry.

Last but not least, the act of waking a cluster up may temporarily fail,
because while the cluster was hibernating, the tenant came close to its
volume, RAM, CPU, etc. quota, and attempting to re-instantiate the
worker nodes and re-activate the cluster would breach the quota limit.

All of the above change many assumptions about the concept of
"hibernation", which usually means that resources are merely
stopped/frozen, and their volatile information is made persistent. This
is eminently **not** the case in Gardener hibernation.

Let us now see how you can hibernate a cluster from the {{gui}}, and

> then how you can wake up an already hibernated cluster.

Reviewer: No, this doesn't belong here. Suggestion:

1. You push to your topic branch with this section removed, and with the topic branch rebased on current `main`.
2. We merge *this* PR (#151).
3. We merge #153.
4.  We merge #154.
5. You then submit a fresh PR, adding this section as a separate background explainer for Gardener hibernation.

---
description: How to hibernate a Gardener-based Kubernetes cluster
---
# Hibernating a Kubernetes cluster

There will be times when you won't be using your Gardener-based cluster 
much, if at all. To save on costs, you can put the whole cluster in 
hibernation. If you do, then from that time on, and until you wake the 
cluster up, you will be paying *only* for the total storage space your 

> cluster occupies. Let us see how you can hibernate a cluster from the 

Author: Ah, yes, I modified it accordingly.

{{gui}}, and then how you can wake up an already hibernated cluster.

## Assumptions

We assume you have already used Gardener in {{brand}} to spin up a 
Kubernetes cluster, which is now humming away. If you've never done 
this before, please feel free to [follow this 
guide](../create-shoot-cluster).

> ## Hiberneting a cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Hibernating a cluster
```

Author: Ouch :/

Fire up your favorite web browser and navigate to 
<https://{{gui_domain}}>. Make sure the vertical pane at the left-hand 
side of the page is in full view, then choose 
*Containers → [{{k8s_management_service}}](https://{{gui_domain}}/containers/gardener)*.
In the main pane, you will see your Gardener cluster.  Click anywhere
on the corresponding row for a detailed view of the various cluster
characteristics. Go to the *Status* tab and check if hibernation is
possible.

> ![Gardener cluster status](assets/garhiber-01.png)

Reviewer: This screenshot contains markers labeled ① ② ③, but these numbers are not referenced in the prose. Please remove them from the screenshot.

If hibernation is indeed possible, this will be reflected in the 
*Constraints* section. To go ahead and actually hibernate the cluster, 
click the orange three-dot icon at the right-hand side of the cluster 
row, and from the pop-up menu that appears, select *Hibernate Cluster*.

![Hibernate cluster](assets/garhiber-02.png)

> A big pop-up window will appear, asking you to confirm the action; just 
> click the red button labeled *Yes, Hibernate*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A big pop-up window will appear, asking you to confirm the action.
Click the red button labeled *Yes, Hibernate*.
```

Author: Ναι, γιατί όχι;

![Confirm cluster hibernation](assets/garhiber-03.png)

After a minute or two, the cluster will be in a hibernated state. This 
fact will be indicated by the white-square-in-red-circle icon, at the 
left-hand side of the cluster row.

![Cluster in hibernation](assets/garhiber-04.png)

At this point, and as long as the cluster is in hibernation, any 
attempt to list the cluster nodes, e.g., via `kubectl`, will fail.

## Waking up a cluster in hibernation

To wake up a cluster in hibernation, click the orange three-dot icon at 
the right-hand side of its row. From the pop-up menu that appears, 
select *Wake up Cluster*.

![Wake up cluster](assets/garhiber-05.png)

> A big pop-up window will appear, asking you to confirm the waking up of 
> the cluster. Go ahead and click the red *Yes, Wakeup* button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A big pop-up window will appear, asking you to confirm that you want to wake
the cluster. Go ahead and click the red *Yes, Wakeup* button.
```

![Confirm cluster wake-up](assets/garhiber-06.png)

After a couple of minutes, the cluster will be fully awake. The fact 
will be indicated by the white-tick-in-green-circle icon, at the 
left-hand side of the cluster row.

![Cluster awake](assets/garhiber-07.png)

> From that time on, the cluster will be accessible and fully operational.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From that time on, the cluster will be accessible and fully operational again.
```

Author: Better, yes!

side of the page is in full view, then choose
*Containers → [{{k8s_management_service}}](https://{{gui_domain}}/containers/gardener)*.
In the main pane, you will see your Gardener cluster.  Click anywhere
on the corresponding row for a detailed view of the various cluster
characteristics. Go to the *Status* tab and check if hibernation is
possible.

![Gardener cluster status](assets/garhiber-01.png)

If hibernation is indeed possible, this will be reflected in the
*Constraints* section. To go ahead and actually hibernate the cluster,
click the orange three-dot icon at the right-hand side of the cluster
row, and from the pop-up menu that appears, select *Hibernate Cluster*.

![Hibernate cluster](assets/garhiber-02.png)

A big pop-up window will appear, asking you to confirm the action.
Click the red button labeled *Yes, Hibernate*.

![Confirm cluster hibernation](assets/garhiber-03.png)

After a minute or two, the cluster will be in a hibernated state. This
fact will be indicated by the white-square-in-red-circle icon, at the
left-hand side of the cluster row.

![Cluster in hibernation](assets/garhiber-04.png)

At this point, and as long as the cluster is in hibernation, any

> attempt to list the cluster nodes, e.g., via `kubectl`, will fail.

Reviewer: Just a micro-suggestion: maybe we should be a little more explicit about the kind of failure that users should expect?

```suggestion
attempt to list the cluster nodes, e.g., via `kubectl`, will time out.
```

... or perhaps

```suggestion
attempt to list the cluster nodes, e.g., via `kubectl`, will fail with a timeout.
```

What do you think?

Author: Well, while a command like `kubectl get nodes` does fail, you do get an error message **almost instantaneously**:

`Unable to connect to the server: tls: failed to verify certificate: x509: certificate is valid for ingress.local, not api.ghar.p43597.k8s.cleura.cloud`

That doesn't seem like a timeout error to me, and I'm guessing there's no actual timeout because a load balancer is still in place **even** for hibernated clusters.

So, because of that, I think we could leave the sentence as is.
